Pootle 2.1.5 released
=====================

*Released on 18 Jan 2011*

A quick bug fix release to celebrate the new Year. Please welcome `Pootle 2.1.5
<https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Pootle/2.1.5/>`_!

Pootle is a web based system for translation and translation management.

This release fixes a couple of regressions introduced in the previous 2.1.4
release. Including a build mistake where the files in the 2.1.4 tarball had
very restrictive permissions.

Apart from that, version 2.1.5 has a handful of fixes. Here are the highlights:

- Fix regression causing update from templates to fail for GNU Style projects
  with subdirectories.
- Fix regression in handling obsolete units while committing to version control
  (reported by Mozilla).
- Clean stale file locks left in cases of external kills which running
  expensive commands.
- Fix security bug where project names would leak to users without view access
  on the server via news summary on front page or profile edit form.
- Fix a bug that prevented Project level permissions from overriding very
  restrictive server wide permissions.

As always Pootle will benefit from fixes and performance improvements in the
latest versions of Translate Toolkit.

* `Feature list`_
* `Download`_
* `Installation instructions`_
* `Bugs`_
* `More information`_

Enjoy it,
The Translate Team

.. _Feature list: http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/pootle/en/latest/features/index.html
.. _Download: https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Pootle/2.1.5/
.. _Installation instructions: http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/pootle/en/latest/server/installation.html
.. _Bugs: https://github.com/translate/pootle/issues
.. _More information: http://pootle.translatehouse.org
