Pootle 2.1.4 Released
=====================

*Released on 17 Dec 2010*

We thought we'd wrap up the year with one more bug fix release, Please welcome
`Pootle 2.1.4 <https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Pootle/2.1.4/>`_

Pootle is a web based system for translation and translation management.

This release fixes a nasty bug where quality checks failed to update on file
uploads. the upgrade screen will flash on first visit after upgrade for a
minute or two to correct this problem (might take longer if you used the
quality checks feature extensively).

Apart from that, version 2.1.4 has a handful of fixes. Here are the highlights:

- Once and for all Qt ts plurals should now work correctly.
- Fixed a bug where obsolete units could not be updated when uploading a new
  version of the file.
- Fixed a bug that affected some GNU/Linux systems causing server errors when
  using Turkish Locale.
- Fixed a bug in GNU style projects with a prefix where pt_BR would be detected
  as Breton instead of Brazilian Portuguese

As always Pootle will benefit from fixes and performance improvements in the
latest versions of Translate Toolkit.

* `Feature list`_
* `Download`_
* `Installation instructions`_
* `Bugs`_
* `More information`_

.. _Feature list: http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/pootle/en/latest/features/index.html
.. _Download: https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Pootle/2.1.4/
.. _Installation instructions: http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/pootle/en/latest/server/installation.html
.. _Bugs: https://github.com/translate/pootle/issues
.. _More information: http://pootle.translatehouse.org
