Pootle 2.1.2 Released including security fix
============================================

*Released on 15 Nov 2010*


https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Pootle/2.1.2/Pootle-2.1.2.tar.bz2

This release includes an important security fix to a cross site scripting
vulnerability in the translate page. All users are encouraged to upgrade
immediately.

The release also includes many improvements to the support of monolingual
translation formats (like subtitles files and Java properties) and to "GNU
style" projects.

We also bring you translations for five new language (Zulu, Greek, Danish,
Acoli and Fulah) and six more translations are now 100% complete (Uighur,
Chinese (China), Catalan, Asturian, Akan and Ganda).

Highlighted fixed and improvements:

* Fixed a PostgreSQL incompatibility bug.
* Fixed a regression where plural units in Qt ts where not parsed correctly.
* A new manage.py command update_translation_projects allows for detecting new
  languages added to projects on the file system.
* More flexible options to all manage.py commands allowing users to limit
  commands to a set of projects and languages.
* Pootle now supports GNU Style projects where filenames have a prefix
  preceding language codes.
* Pootle will ignore case differences when matching filenames to language
  codes.
* Improvements to fuzzy matching when updating monolingual projects from
  templates.
* Pootle will no longer modify templates files, translations to these files
  will be stored in database only to avoid propagating these translations on
  update from templates.
* Users with administer permissions on a language or project now have all the
  other rights implied automatically for that language or project.
* Users with only suggest right will be able to upload files using the "suggest
  only" merge method.
* URLs in developer comments are now displayed as links.
* Fixed bug that caused unnecessary diffs to PO files tracked in version
  control.
* Local terminology no longer blocks suggestions from the server-wide
  terminology project.
* Pootle is now less fascistic about what language codes should look like, but
  users should try to stick to GNU locale names when possible.
* Removed confusing initialize checkbox from Project admin page. No one knew
  what it was for, those who do can uncomment a single line of code to bring it
  back.

Pootle 2.1.1 depends on at least version 1.8.0 of Translate Toolkit, and as
always will benefit from fixes in any later versions. so always use the latest.

This work was made possible by many volunteers and our funders:

- ANLoc, funded by IDRC http://africanlocalisation.net/

* `Feature list`_
* `Download`_
* `Installation instructions`_
* `Bugs`_
* `More information`_

.. _Feature list: http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/pootle/en/latest/features/index.html
.. _Download: https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Pootle/2.1.2/
.. _Installation instructions: http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/pootle/en/latest/server/installation.html
.. _Bugs: https://github.com/translate/pootle/issues
.. _More information: http://pootle.translatehouse.org
