Pootle 2.1.1 Released including security fix
============================================

*Released on 03 September 2010*

With the coming of spring we thought it's a good time to make the first
bug fix release of the exciting new Pootle. We bring you Pootle 2.1.1
get it while it is blooming from
https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Pootle/2.1.1/

Pootle is a web based system for translation and translation
management.

This release finally brings the ability to migrate data between
different database engines. This means all of you stuck with the
default sqlite3 can now move to a database engine that scales better
like MySQL or PostgreSQL.

Note that database migration depends on Django 1.2 or later.

As an added bonus we added database migration to the 2.0 branch and
quietly slipped in the last bug fix release for that series
https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Pootle/2.0.6/ we made
this bonus release so users still on the 2.0 branch using sqlite can
migrate databases before they upgrade to 2.1 since the upgrade process
is slow and the database size under 2.1 is considerably larger.

For instructions and more details check :doc:`Database migration
</server/database_migration>` docs.

We noticed some users running Pootle under apache fail to use memcached
for caching and stick to the default local memory cache backend. This
causes buggy behavior as the default is not compatible with
multiprocess servers. So for 2.1.1 we changed the default to a database
cache backend. We still recommend using memcached but if for any reason
you can't please update your localsettings.py.

Users upgrading from 2.1.0 will see the upgrade screen appear
for a few seconds while Pootle prepares the database for the new cache
backend.

For more information check :doc:`Caching System </server/cache>` docs.

Apart from these two major changes 2.1.1 includes four new
translations (Slovenian, Songhai, Tamil and Faroese) and many fixes and
performance improvements. Here are the highlights:

* Translation progress tables now show icons to indicate
  ability to change table sorting.

* Apertium machine translation improved their Javascript APIs with the
  help of our Julen, Pootle has been updated to use these new apis
  which make apertium a much more attractive option (specially for
  translation between European languages).

* Pootle no longer attempts to save translations to disk when there
  are no new translations. Speeds up downloads.

* Pootle now keeps a cached copy of exported ZIP archives and XLIFF
  files to improve performance.

* Correct From header for emails sent by contact form.

* Fixed a bug where Pootle kept files open even when not needed.
  May make us more Windows friendly (but no promises).

* Better handling of invalid file types on upload.

* Expensive serverwide stats on admin dashboard are not calculated
  on demand only. Should make admin page loading more snappy.

* Don't accept empty suggestions.

* Thanks to Terin Stock (terinjokes) it is now possible to send
  registration email as HTML emails.


Pootle 2.1.1 depends on at least version 1.8.0 of Translate Toolkit, and as
always will benefit from fixes in any later versions. So always use the latest.

This work was made possible by many volunteers and our funders:

- ANLoc, funded by IDRC http://africanlocalisation.net/

* `Feature list`_
* `Download`_
* `Installation instructions`_
* `Bugs`_
* `More information`_

.. _Feature list: http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/pootle/en/latest/features/index.html
.. _Download: https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Pootle/2.1.1/
.. _Installation instructions: http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/pootle/en/latest/server/installation.html
.. _Bugs: https://github.com/translate/pootle/issues
.. _More information: http://pootle.translatehouse.org
