Pootle 2.1.3 released
=====================

*Released on 26 Nov 2010*

It's been less than three weeks since the we released Pootle 2.1.2 but we've
fixed a couple of critical bugs affecting many users so it's time for another
bug fix release. Please welcome `Pootle 2.1.3
<https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Pootle/2.1.3/>`_

Pootle is a web based system for translation and translation management.

This release includes a fix to a data loss bug, where recent translations are
lost when updating from version control. Users who depend on version control
support are encouraged to upgrade immediately.

We've added support for CSV format. This will hopefully make it easier for less
technical users to get their strings inside Pootle by exporting from
spreadsheet or similar office software. But it should not be treated as a
replacement for more solid formats like PO, Qt ts or XLIFF.

By popular demand we've improved Java properties support to accept properties
files in any encoding. including UTF-8.

Improved format support depends on the recently release Translate Toolkit 1.8.1

We also bring you translations for Chiga and Latvian.

Apart from that, version 2.1.2 has many bug fixes. Here are the highlights:

- Fix for database migration failing for some users
- Fix for errors on upgrades for users who deleted the English language
- Fix for errors on filenames with spaces and memcached
- Many fixes to language detection in GNU Style projects
- Various fixes to handling of escaped characters in translate page

As always Pootle will benefit from fixes in any the latest versions of
Translate Toolkit, the recently released 1.8.1 includes many fixes specifically
for Pootle 2.1.3 so upgrading translate toolkit is highly recommended.

* `Feature list`_
* `Download`_
* `Installation instructions`_
* `Bugs`_
* `More information`_

.. _Feature list: http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/pootle/en/latest/features/index.html
.. _Download: https://sourceforge.net/projects/translate/files/Pootle/2.1.3/
.. _Installation instructions: http://docs.translatehouse.org/projects/pootle/en/latest/server/installation.html
.. _Bugs: https://github.com/translate/pootle/issues
.. _More information: http://pootle.translatehouse.org
