===================================
Welcome to the new Pootle 2.5.2-rc1
===================================

.. note:: Not released yet. *Planned release date late April 2014*.

For those who can't wait you might be interested to know what we've got planned
on our :ref:`roadmap <roadmap>`.

Changes in Requirements
=======================
- Django >= 1.5.5 < 1.6
- `Translate Toolkit <http://toolkit.translatehouse.org/download.html>`_ >=
  1.12.0-rc1
- Python >= 2.6

Major Changes
=============

These are by no means exhaustive, check the `git log
<https://github.com/translate/pootle/compare/stable%2F2.5.1...master>`_
for more details.

- Upgrade:

  - Direct upgrade is now only possible from 2.1.1 and later.
  - Fixed failing direct upgrade from 2.1.6 and older that required to perform an
    intermediate upgrade step to 2.5.0.

- The default caching in database has been replaced by local-memory caching.
  Using memcached is still highly recommended.
- The registration and authentication layer is now handled by django-allauth.
  This gives Pootle implicit support for OpenID, OAuth, OAuth2 and Persona
  sign-in support.
- Local Translation Memory (TM) augments the already available `amaGama
  <http://amagama.translatehouse.org>`_ TM by delivering TM results from the
  projects hosted on the Pootle server.  Images stored in
  :setting:`PODIRECTORY` ``$project/.pootle/icon.png`` provide an icon to the
  TM result.
- The ``view`` permission is now project-centric, it can be set server-wide or
  for projects, but not for individual language-project combinations.
- Dropped code for several external apps from Pootle codebase. Also upgraded to
  newer versions of those apps.
- The contact form has been converted to an AJAX form.
- The report target for reporting string errors has been dropped in favor of a
  report email address. The report is now sent using an automatically
  pre-filled  contact form. If the project doesn't have a report email then the
  reports are sent to :setting:`POOTLE_REPORT_STRING_ERRORS_EMAIL`.
- Some changes in the API.
- New management command to assign permissions to a user.
- Using dumpdata and loaddata to move between databases is no longer supported.
  If you need to move, please use proper SQL scripts instead.
- Added a new ``system`` user to attribute to changes done by the management
  commands.
- The ``update_translation_projects`` management command no longer removes
  projects when using the ``--cleanup`` option. This was an undocumented
  behavior.
- Added support to disable the Pootle server for maintenance using
  ``django-maintenancemode``.
- Dropped support for old web browsers. Despite that Pootle might work on such
  browsers. More on :ref:`Supported Browsers <browsers>`.
- Changed the format of the files accepted by the ``add_project_goals``
  management command.
- Big revamp of UI:

  - We now have a wide stats table that shows the same data in the different
    levels. This affects several features which are now relocated in a sidebar:
    actions, instructions or current goal.
  - New navigation scheme using dropdowns.

- Editor changes:

  - Added keyboard shortcuts help.
  - Several minor improvements.
  - Placeables are used to highlight parts of the source text and easily insert
    them into the translation.


Removal of legacy features
==========================

We have dropped some legacy features we kept around for allowing a swift
upgrade in the past.

The removal of some of these feature required extensive changes on the
upgrading code, which resulted in that upgrading directly from ancient versions
is no longer possible. In case you are trying to upgrade from Pootle 2.1.0 or
older you must first upgrade to 2.1.6 before upgrading to this version.

These are the features we got rid of:

- .pending and .tm files support: Not necessary since the updatetm tool was
  removed in Pootle 2.5.0.
- Live translation: Rarely enabled, and it was discouraged to use it.
- Autosync: It was recommended to never use it. The files can now be synced
  instead using the appropriate management commands.


...and lots of refactoring, upgrades of upstream code, cleanups to remove
Django 1.4 specifics, improved documentation and of course, loads of bugs were
fixed.
