===================================
Welcome to the new Pootle 2.6.0-rc2
===================================

*Released on 8 October 2014*

For those who can't wait you might be interested to know what we've got planned
on our :ref:`roadmap <roadmap>`.

For the list of changes for Pootle 2.6.0, please also see the
:doc:`2.6.0-rc1 Release Notes <2.6.0-rc1>`.

Changes since 2.6.0-rc1
=======================
- Django 1.6.5 is now required to run Pootle. Earlier versions are unsupported.
- Upgraded Underscore.js to version 1.6
- Overwriting source texts from the web interface is no longer supported
- Some missing UI elements have returned
- Dozens of bugfixes

Known issues
============

.. note::

   Despite our best efforts this release is going to be shipped with several
   behavior flaws. These include translation statistics and checks not being
   calculated when adding a new language to an existing project. To circumvent
   this specific issue you can run :command:`refresh_stats` management command
   with the :option:`--project` and :option:`--language` options.

- Statistics sometimes go out of sync.
- Some operations, such as update_against_templates, are significantly slower.
- The page footer is sometimes significantly larger than intended.
- Usernames are set wrong when creating an account through certain third party backends.

Credits
=======
This release was made possible thanks to the contributions of Julen Ruiz
Aizpuru, Leandro Regueiro, Jerome Leclanche, Igor Afanasyev, Taras Semenenko,
Khaled Hosny, Dwayne Bailey, Arky, Peter Bengtsson, Miha Vrhovnik, Henrik Saari
and Folkert van Heusden
