=====================================
Welcome to the new Pootle 2.7.1 final
=====================================

*Released on 18 September 2015*

Bugfix release for 2.7.0.


Changes in Requirements
=======================
- Django >= 1.7.10, < 1.8
- Translate Toolkit >= 1.13.0
- Python >= 2.7, < 3.0
- Redis >= 2.8.4
- Django transaction hooks
- Unix-based operating system.


Major Changes
=============

- Updated translations.
- Added django-transaction-hooks
- Changed user delete behaviour
- Lots of command changes and additions
- Improved upload


Below we provide much more detail. These are by no means exhaustive, view the
`git log <https://github.com/translate/pootle/compare/stable/2.7.0...2.7.1>`_
for complete information.


Details of changes
==================

Translation statistics
----------------------

- Last activity snippets for stats are not kept in the cache anymore. The markup
  is now built on the client. This requires refreshing all server stats using
  the :djadmin:`refresh_stats` command (:issue:`3835`).

- Renamed ``refresh_stats_rq`` command to :djadmin:`refresh_stats`. The
  old ``refresh_stats`` command is now gone.

- POT files are no longer included in the translations stats. This allows to
  achieve a 100% translation status for a project if all the languages are
  completely translated.

- Fixed issue with empty directories preventing stats from being fully
  calculated.

- Public virtual folders with pending suggestions are now always displayed.


Django transaction hooks
------------------------

- To ensure async jobs are scheduled at the correct time
  `django-transaction-hooks
  <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-transaction-hooks/>`_ is now required.
  This dependency will be unnecessary once Django 1.9 becomes Pootle's minimum
  requirement.

- You must update your database connection to use one of the
  django-transaction-hooks backends:

  - mysql: transaction_hooks.backends.mysql
  - postgres: transaction_hooks.backends.postgresql_psycopg2


Changed user delete behaviour
-----------------------------

On deleting a user account their submissions, suggestions and reviews are now
re-assigned to the "nobody" user.

If you wish to remove the user's contributions also, you can use the
:djadmin:`purge_user` command, or call ``user.delete(purge=True)`` to delete the
user programatically.


File uploads
------------

- The uploading user now receives the credit for the upload.

- Handling of upload errors have been improved, displaying more useful messages
  now.

- In case of upload conflict the new translations are turned into suggestions.


Command changes and additions
-----------------------------

- Added a :djadmin:`contributors` command to get the list of contributors
  (:issue:`3867`).

- Added a :djadmin:`find_duplicate_emails` command to find duplicate emails.

- Added a :djadmin:`merge_user` command to get merge submissions, comments and
  reviews from one user account to another. This is useful for fixing users
  that have multiple accounts and want them to be combined. No profile data
  is merged. By default it removes the original user account after successful
  merge.

- Added a :djadmin:`purge_user` command to purge a user from the site and revert
  any submissions, comments and reviews that they have made. This is useful to
  revert spam or a malicious user.

- Added a :djadmin:`verify_user` command to automatically verify a user account

- Renamed ``refresh_stats_rq`` command to :djadmin:`refresh_stats`, replacing
  the old command of the same name. :djadmin:`refresh_stats` is able to
  calculate the stats for disabled projects (old ``refresh_stats_rq`` was
  unable to do it).

  - Errata: the removal of the old :djadmin:`refresh_stats` has removed the
    following options:

    - ``--calculate-checks`` and ``--check`` -- Use :djadmin:`calculate_checks`
      instead.
    - ``--calculate-wordcount``

- Added a :djadmin:`update_user_email` command to update a user's email
  address.

- Added a :option:`--no-rq` option to run commands in a single process without
  using RQ workers.

- Now it is possible specify the parameters to set up your database directly
  through :djadmin:`init command <init>`.


Editor
------

- Editor now request confirmation before navigating away from modified units in
  order to prevent data loss. This also includes non-saved comments. Going to
  the previous, next, and a specific unit will trigger the prompt, as well as
  changing filters or searching. It is also triggered by typing a different
  URL, reloading the page or closing the browser window.

- Fixed issue that didn't allow users with only just suggestion rights to send
  suggestions.

- Suggestion related events are now displayed on the timeline.

- Critical and not critical failing checks are now displayed separately in the
  editor.

- Potential errors when managing the suggestions are now displayed to users.

- Fixed a regression that prevented users from rejecting their own suggestions
  even if they don't have enough permissions to reject suggestions.


Misc changes
------------

- Disabled projects are visually differentiated in the projects drop-down
  (:issue:`3996`).
  Since the in-cache data structure supporting this changed, it's necessary to
  clear the cache. Assuming your ``default`` cache lives in the DB number ``1``,
  you can clear it as follows:

  .. code-block:: console

    $ redis-cli -n 1 KEYS "*method-cache:Project:cached_dict:*" | xargs redis-cli -n 1 DEL

- Admins can now always see and navigate disabled projects.

- Pulled latest translations.

- Scores now include suggestions.

- A link is now displayed on the sidebar so admin users can quickly edit the
  announcements.

- Now previously hidden errors during login and sign up are displayed to the
  user.

- Improved usage of system checks so sysadmins get better feedback on whether
  something is wrong with Pootle.


...and lots of refactoring, new tests, cleanups, improved documentation and of
course, loads of bugs were fixed.


Credits
=======

This release was made possible by the following people:

Julen Ruiz Aizpuru, Ryan Northey, Taras Semenenko, Leandro Regueiro, Dwayne
Bailey, Jerome Leclanche, Kevin Scannell, Daniel Widerin.

And to all our bug finders, testers and translators, a Very BIG Thank You.
