=================================
Welcome to the new Pootle 2.7.3b2
=================================

*Not yet released*

Bugfix release for 2.7.2.


Major Changes
=============


Details of changes
==================

- :djadmin:`run_cherrypy` has been removed.
- :djadmin:`start` has been removed, use :djadmin:`runserver` instead.
- :djadmin:`verify_user` and :djadmin:`purge_user` now accept multiple
  usernames.
- :djadmin:`refresh_scores` now recalculates user scores and accepts
  multiple usernames.
- :djadmin:`contributors` has two new options
  :option:`--since <contributors --since>` and
  :option:`--only-emails <contributors --only-emails>`.
- :djadmin:`flush_cache` flushes ``default``, ``redis``, ``stats`` caches,
  accepts :option:`--rqdata <flush_cache --rqdata>`,
  :option:`--stats <flush_cache --stats>`,
  :option:`--django-cache <flush_cache --django-cache>` options.

- :setting:`POOTLE_SCORE_COEFFICIENTS` accepts custom settings for user
  scores calculation.
- :setting:`POOTLE_TM_SERVER` no longer receives the ``MIN_SCORE`` parameter, as
  it was misleading and had questionable effects.
- :setting:`POOTLE_TM_SERVER` now accepts a ``MIN_SIMILARITY`` parameter, to
  filter out results which might be irrelevant. To learn more, check the
  documenation on :setting:`MIN_SIMILARITY <POOTLE_TM_SERVER-MIN_SIMILARITY>`.


...and lots of refactoring, new tests, cleanups, improved documentation and of
course, loads of bugs were fixed.


Credits
=======

This release was made possible by the following people:

%CONTRIBUTORS%

And to all our bug finders, testers and translators, a Very BIG Thank You.
