========================
Pootle 2.9 release notes
========================

*Not yet released*

Welcome to Pootle 2.9!

If you want to try it, check one of the following:

- :doc:`Installation instructions </server/installation>`
- :doc:`Upgrading instructions </server/upgrading>`


Changes
=======

- Django>=1.10.8,<1.11
- Pootle FS is enabled by default:

  - All projects are now handled by Pootle FS.
  - When creating new projects:

    - It is mandatory to set filesystem configuration right after creating it,
    - Pootle no longer automatically imports translations from disk,
    - Pootle no longer creates project directory on disk if missing,
    - Name for templates in disk is now configurable.

  - When adding new languages to a project:

    - Pootle no longer tries to first import existing translations from disk,
    - Pootle initializes the new languages using the templates in the database.

  - Merged previously separated forms for handling Pootle FS specific settings
    of projects into other existing forms:

    - Merged project's Pootle FS backend configuration into project form.
    - Merged project's languages mapping configuration into project's languages
      form.

- Several bugfixes for Pootle FS:

  - Fix handling of obsolete and unsynced units,
  - Allow to sync to empty file,
  - Several fixes for initializing new languages from templates,
  - When language mappings change now the disk files that are tracked are
    immediately detected,
  - Fix for correctly stage filesystem overwrite on conflict,
  - Adjustments in migrations.

- Serialization:

  - Don't cache on serialization,
  - Allow serializing obsolete units,
  - Serialization and sync bugfixes.

- Editor:

  - No longer shows red background if all critical checks are muted.
  - Don't redirect to browse view after translating last unit unless all
    previous units have been translated.

- Improved performance on permissions forms by using a live search field for
  users.
- Fixed issues with variables in translations.
- Updated UI language discovery to try simpler language codes before trying a
  fallback.
- Limited several text fields in the models to 4096 characters.
- Overall documentation review and updates.


Command changes and additions
-----------------------------

- `pootle` command can now be run with no `VIRTUAL_ENV` environment variable
  set.
- :djadmin:`sync_stores`:

  - Has been deprecated in favor of Pootle FS commands,
  - Can now work with projects managed by Pootle FS,
  - Warns if there is any conflict between disk and database changes,
  - The :option:`--force <sync_stores --force>` and
    :option:`--overwrite <sync_stores --overwrite>` arguments no longer have
    any effect in the command execution.

- :djadmin:`update_stores`:

  - Has been deprecated in favor of Pootle FS commands,
  - Can now work with projects managed by Pootle FS,
  - The :option:`--force <sync_stores --force>` argument no longer has any
    effect in the command execution.

- Removed ``changed_languages`` command. Use :djadmin:`list_languages` instead.
- Added :option:`--yes <init --yes>` argument to :djadmin:`init` command.


Credits
=======

This release was made possible by the following people:

Ryan Northey, Leandro Regueiro, Dwayne Bailey, Taras Semenenko, boite.

And to all our bug finders, testers and translators, a Very BIG Thank You.
